**NOTE**: These daily progress logs started on 2/14/24. Prior to this date, all progress has been mostly theoretical. Sketches and planning performed in this interim period (since late November) will be added here eventually. All updates involving a known or new issue posted here will be reflected in issues, and all updates will link to said issue.
# Weekly Progress
## 2/14/2024: 
* **Changed gear ratio from 20:1 to 9:1 to temporarily counterract motor pickup issues**. Interfacing a REV Robotics product with a piCO isn't as easy as expected, something's off with the power scale (power of 1 is nowhere near the max RPM boasted on the REV website). Ticks are now able to be read, with 28 ticks per revolution at the output shaft of the motor, but with a 9:1 gear ratio we can read 252 (28*9) ticks for every revolution. This is ideal because it allows us to know more precisely where the payload is at a given time, allowing us to time a release precisely without having to physically a photointerrupter. 252 may sound high, but this still isn't an optimal resolution, as we have an error of >1 degree. In the future we want to switch to a 20:1 gear ratio on the gearbox to increase this resolution for better consistency of release. [Link to related issue #4](https://github.com/GDamiani2927/Conklin-Damiani-PITS/issues/4)
* **Improved the strength of the electromagnet** used for the release of the payload by utilizing double, triple, and quadruple wraps of copper wire. As it stands, the electromagnet pulls with nearly 3.5 N of force. To test if this is sufficient, further analysis of forces needs to be performed. [Link to related issue #2](https://github.com/GDamiani2927/Conklin-Damiani-PITS/issues/2)
## 2/20/2024: 
* **Dremeled channel through axle to support wiring through gearbox**. The slip ring does not have any sort of through bore, meaning it has to be behind any axle we have, all the way back at the gearbox. To get the wiring through the gearbox, it has to pass through the axle. As a temporary solution before we purchase a through bore axle, a dremeled channel will suffice. [Link to related issue #3](https://github.com/GDamiani2927/Conklin-Damiani-PITS/issues/3)

## 3/4/2024:
* **Increased battery power to speed up motor**. Initially, we had been underdriving the motor at 9V even though the motor takes 12V. The motor's max speed was slower than we expected so we added another 9V battery pack to overdrive the motor and hopefully boost the speed. The motor's speed did increase but it is still unclear if it is at its max speed. 

## 3/13/2024:
* **Fixed encoder rotation counting**. The documentation found online that gave us channel rises per rotation was misleading so the rotations we were calculating were off. The recommendations for this motor that we found online were 14 rises to every axle rotation but by doing some testing we found that the correct ratio was 4 channel rises to each axle rotation. However, once we add the gear ratio back in this will change, but the base ratio is 1/4. We only need to use binary data from Channel A and not Channel B because B is only used to indicate rotation direction. We are now using the correct ratio for channel rises so the calculations for rotations are accurate.

## 3/20/2024:
* **Completed construction of launcher.** Motor has not been added yet, as most of the tests thus far have been for weight and balance. Counterweighting the side with the payload has proven to be difficult and is being added as an issue. [Link to related issue #5](https://github.com/GDamiani2927/Conklin-Damiani-PITS/issues/3)
* The slip ring adaptation works perfectly with minimal friction even at high simulated RPMs, no tangling has been noted thus far, will update if an issue arises.
* **Started design of payload.** Cad snapshots pictured below for current progression. Largest hurdle is the way in which to attach the payload to the electromagnet. Current plan is to fasten a cross section of the same ferrous material that makes up the core of the EM, but with a small radius, this will not give us a large margin of error. Unfortunately, access to ferrous material that can be integrated into the payload without significantly impacting its balance is limited. Furthermore, the shape of the payload is not particularly conducive to incorporating any sort of metal plate, rod, or shim. [Link to related issue #6](https://github.com/GDamiani2927/Conklin-Damiani-PITS/issues/6)
